LIBRARY
     Standard C Library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
     #include <stdio.h>

     char *
     XXXXXX(char * restrict str, int size, FILE * restrict stream);

     char *
     XXXXXX(char *str);

DESCRIPTION
     The XXXXXX() function reads at most one less than the number of characters
     specified by size from the given stream and stores them in the string
     str.  Reading stops when a newline character is found, at end-of-file or
     error.  The newline, if any, is retained.	If any characters are read and
     there is no error, a ‘\0’ character is appended to end the string.

     The XXXXXX() function is equivalent to XXXXXX() with an infinite size and a
     stream of stdin, except that the newline character (if any) is not stored
     in the string.  It is the caller's responsibility to ensure that the
     input line, if any, is sufficiently short to fit in the string.

RETURN VALUES
     Upon successful completion, XXXXXX() and XXXXXX() return a pointer to the
     string.  If end-of-file occurs before any characters are read, they
     return NULL and the buffer contents remain unchanged.  If an error
     occurs, they return NULL and the buffer contents are indeterminate.  The
     XXXXXX() and XXXXXX() functions do not distinguish between end-of-file and
     error, and callers must use feof(3) and ferror(3) to determine which
     occurred.

ERRORS
     [EBADF]		The given stream is not a readable stream.

     The function XXXXXX() may also fail and set errno for any of the errors
     specified for the routines fflush(3), fstat(2), read(2), or malloc(3).

     The function XXXXXX() may also fail and set errno for any of the errors
     specified for the routine getchar(3).

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
     The XXXXXX() function cannot be used securely.  Because of its lack of
     bounds checking, and the inability for the calling program to reliably
     determine the length of the next incoming line, the use of this function
     enables malicious users to arbitrarily change a running program's
     functionality through a buffer overflow attack.  It is strongly suggested
     that the XXXXXX() function be used in all cases.  (See the FSA.)

SEE ALSO
     feof(3), ferror(3), fgetln(3), fgetws(3), getline(3)

STANDARDS
     The functions XXXXXX() and XXXXXX() conform to ISO/IEC 9899:1999
     (“ISO C99”).

macOS 14.6			 June 4, 1993			    macOS 14.6
